# Author: Erica Coles
# Project Title : Dawn of the Wasteland: A College Odyssey

I have always been a fan of The Walking Dead series which has grown into a love for the franchise and other similar apocalyptic themed works. So, it was only natural that I used that interest to inspire my story for this project. Titled "Dawn of the Wasteland: A College Odyssey", this generative narrative follows the story of a character in college navigating the beginning of a post-apocalyptic world and their journey to find their family. The main question is can the user select the best choices to keep the character alive? My inspiration for this story derives from other sources as well - for one, an apocalyptic journey shown from the perspective of a college student stems from my curiosity as a college student myself and a horror fan who has yet to see a fictional experience of a college-aged student navigate worlds such as the ones I've seen. Other inspirations are The Walking Dead mobile game and a similar series, The Last of Us, which I used to create the various potential storylines of the character. The knowledge from the media I've watched helped me better construct the environment and the rapid transition of a world from normal to disastrous by adapting the structure of apocalyptic storytelling and character development.

The main basis of an authentic apocalyptic story is how realistic it is and an important part of that is unpredictablity. The Walking Dead gained such acclaim and popularity not only for it's excellent and complex story with distinguished characters, but because the audience could not predict what would happen. Favorite characters could be killed off at any moment and oftentimes without forewarning which is realistic because anyone would be vulnerable in the real world and no one can predict the future. I aimed to incorporate this in my story. I wanted to create many different paths the main character could take and using a generative AI helps accomplish this because one decision can split off into several potential decisions and this network of possibilities enables the user to generate a unique story every time. In real life, no one knows which decision will ultimately be the right one, in fictional apocalyptic stories, decisonmaking is key to survival yet the characters are never sure that the decisions they'll make could end up fatal. In my story, any series of decisions dictates the character's fate: the character's survival or untimely death. Behind the scenes, I created several events in the Omeka database that represent the potential actions and decisions of the character. I established three initial conditions (to limit complexity) that starts the character's journey then the story could branch off into several different directions based off that.
